- [Instructor] All the steps to build the user service
have been listed on the screen.
Let us go through them one by one.
The first step is to create a gRPC project with Maven
and add all the necessary dependencies.
So let's go to the IntelliJ IDE and create a new project.
Choose Maven, and let's click on next and give this a name.
Let's call it shopping-services.
So create a basic skeleton for the project.
The next step that we have to do
is make sure that all the dependencies
for the gRPC framework are available in the pom file.
Now I have already listed all the dependencies for you
and these are available in the resources folder
under your exercise files.
So let's open that.
So under chapter three, Resources, you have the pom_xml.
I'm going to open this with an editor first,
copy this entirely, go back to the IDE
and paste this in its entirety.
The one thing that we have to change is go right up
and on line number eight, we have to make sure
that we include the project name that we won't do
since we already named it, this shopping-services.
I'm going to make sure that that's the name of the artifact.
Also, let's walk through the pom file quickly.
Line seven to nine is the basic Maven fundamental
that you have for group id, artifact id and version.
Lines 11 to 18 define certain properties
that this pom file is going to use.
For example, what version of Java will Maven use
to come by your source code?
What source encoding format are you going to use?
That's UTF 8, which is on line 14.
Lines 15 to 17 signify the gRPC version
the protobuf version and the product version.
These are the ones which were the latest stable versions
at the time of recording this course.
However, if you choose to take versions
which are later than these,
then you will have to make sure that everything works well.
The next few set of flights that is lines 22, 37,
these dependencies are coming from the gRPC code framework,
so there's GRPC Nettie shaded on line 23,
which is for the client, the GRPC protobuf on line 29
and GRPCstub on line 34.
In addition to that, on line 39,
we have the protobuf-java-util,
which will help you grab all the utility classes
to work with the message types in your proto files.
Additionally, we have also the H2 database dependency
from lines 56 to 60.
As we spoke earlier,
we are going to use an in-memory H2 database
for the service development.
However, if you use a database of your choice,
then this dependency will change.
In addition to this,
line number 68 has the always Maven plugin
that has been defined.
This is to detect the OS
and generate always specific properties.
Also on line 75, you have the protobuf Maven plugging
which uses the protoc command
to generate your java source fights.
It will scan all the project dependencies
for the bundled.proto files,
and then it'll configure the proto_spot for all of them.
Additionally, it also helps you to attach .proto
to the resources so that they can be bundled
into the package, which is your artifacts package.
If you see on line 77 to 80,
we have used the plugin which is the production grpc java.
This is something that we also used
in the demo that we saw in module two,
where you're trying to generate the service fight
for the proto.
So that's what the plugin is about.
So that is all
That is in a, just the important dependencies
that you will need in order to start working
with the gRPC framework.
But to do one more thing on the right hand side,
click on that Maven tab,
and let's just refresh this project
so that it does all checks
and we have clean fight.
So we have that.
So there we go, we have created a project,
we have pom_xml and we have all the dependencies in place
to get started with development of our services.